since the inaugural Absa Cape Epic in
2004 the event has spearheaded programs
that give back to the sport of mountain
biking and to the communities it touches
in 2012 event founder Kevin faux mark
announced the racers new official
development partner xro a JSC listed
company and one of the most diversified
mining organizations in South Africa
Xsara is a key figure in transformation
and in changing with immigrants of
mahogany as a sport with an illustrious
history of successful endurance athletes
it's clear that South Africa has lately
Talent XR o--'s initiative is to harness
it by enabling disadvantaged riders to
participate and excel in the Absecon
ethic and also inspire mountain biking
in their communities it would be the
third time this year where for about
exam amount and biking to up to
participate in Absa Cape Epic so yeah we
have time two of them so but we produce
very good results for those three years
the next evolution of this noble program
includes the X ro house it's a safe
haven facility that provides a structure
for exhausted living and trained to
fine-tune their preparation for the
rigors of the Absa Cape Epic and to
compete for the prestigious X ro jersey
it's also a place where the young
residents learn vital off the bike
skills that they'll use for the rest of
their lives the Academy have changed my
life life from the life that they used
to have since I arrived in Pretoria in
2010 which is like a Arai this person
that was coming to look for job but
currently and lucky enough because of
life in cycling I end up getting falling
into the examined
Academy's hands and it's such a great
lucky to be in this house because of
this lot of things that the exam is
putting through not all about mountain
biking all about flies which is all
about the education education
backgrounds that they're doing helping
people to go to fellate their schools
and all that stuff and you know in this
lifetime it's very difficult to find
such a creamy like this to have a place
a proper place to stay you know where
you staying very safe and all that stuff
it's not dangerous and even though that
not forgetting even with the social
it'll people it's just like you in with
a team where you stay with the with your
friend with a teammate every morning
when you talk to him and ask him how do
you feel you can go and train you see
it's like you've got a better
communication that you used to have
before because of used to go and pick
him up in this place and all that stuff
but actually xro put everything together
to get us in one roof which is what
they've done and I'm really really happy
about with the house that they've
provided to us
it's such a very great thank you from
them well it means a lot because we get
supplied by many things namely one of
them as the right education that's one
of the important things that they're
offering as I am rewriting my momma
trick if it wasn't for them I wouldn't
be having this opportunity to go back to
school and rewrite momma trick while the
eggs are initiative provides a nurturing
environment to live in training the
mentors of the program is at extremely
high standards pushing the riders hard
to achieve the best possible results and
reach their full potential not just as
athletes but as young adults too so
first year it wasn't really great so
then but last year we produce very good
results we got our guys in top 50 so it
is which is good for four Academy so
they also other guys also I get
motivated about that so this year we
being top 20 so series will be it can be
possible possible
the eggs are a house is just the
beginning with a successful model such
as this who knows what the future could
hold ask any Xsara rider and they'll
tell you it's certainly bright
you